<SECTION>
ITEM 1. BUSINESSOverviewAmerican Airlines Group Inc. (AAG), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly owned subsidiaries are American Airlines, Inc. (American), Envoy Aviation Group Inc., PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA) and Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont). AAG was formed in 1982, under the name AMR Corporation (AMR), as the parent company of American, which was founded in 1934.AAGs and Americans principal executive offices are located at 1 Skyview Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76155 and their telephone number is 682 278 9000.Airline OperationsTogether with our wholly owned regional airline subsidiaries and third party regional carriers operating as American Eagle, our primary business activity is the operation of a major network air carrier, providing scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo through our hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. and partner gateways, including in London, Doha, Madrid, Seattle/Tacoma, Sydney and Tokyo (among others). In 2023, approximately 211 million passengers boarded our flights. During 2023, we launched more than 50 new routes, providing service to close to 350 destinations around the world, and we announced several new destinations for customers to explore in 2024: Copenhagen, Denmark; Naples, Italy; Nice, France; Governors Harbour, Bahamas; Tijuana, Mexico; Tulum, Mexico; Ocho Rios, Jamaica; Pasco, Washington and Hyannis, Massachusetts. In 2024, we announced new service to Brisbane, Australia and Veracruz, Mexico, as well as additional nonstop service between New York and Tokyo, Japan.As of December 31, 2023, we operated 965 mainline aircraft supported by our regional airline subsidiaries and third party regional carriers, which together operated an additional 556 regional aircraft. See Part I, Item 2. Properties for further discussion of our mainline and regional aircraft and Regional below for further discussion of our regional operations.American is a founding member of the oneworld Alliance, which brings together a global network of 13 world class member airlines and their affiliates, working together to provide a superior and seamless travel experience. See Distribution and Marketing Agreements below for further discussion on the oneworld Alliance and other agreements with domestic and international airlines.See Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2023 Financial Overview, AAGs Results of Operations and Americans Results of Operations for further discussion of AAGs and Americans operating results and operating performance. Also, see Note 1(m) to each of AAGs and Americans Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Items 8A and 8B, respectively, for passenger revenue by geographic region and Note 13 to AAGs Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 12 to Americans Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding operating segments. RegionalOur regional carriers provide scheduled air transportation under the brand name American Eagle. The American Eagle carriers include our wholly owned regional carriers Envoy Air Inc. (Envoy), PSA and Piedmont, as well as third party regional carriers including Republic Airways Inc. (Republic), SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Air Wisconsin Airlines LLC (Air Wisconsin). Our regional carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on regional carriers to serve small markets and also to drive connecting traffic to our hubs from markets that are not economical for us to serve with larger, mainline aircraft. In addition, regional carriers offer complementary service in many of our mainline markets. All American Eagle carriers use logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to those of our mainline operations. In 2023, 46 million passengers boarded our regional flights, approximately 45% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights.8Table of ContentsOur regional carrier arrangements are in the form of capacity purchase agreements with our third party regional partners and similar arrangements with our wholly owned affiliates which provide that all revenues, including passenger, in flight, ancillary, mail and freight revenues, go to us. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that we either reimburse or pay 100% of certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees, fuel and passenger liability insurance. In 2023, Air Wisconsin began operating scheduled flights under the American Eagle name.CargoOur cargo division provides a wide range of freight and mail services, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. In 2023, we served more than 21,000 unique origin and destination pairs, transporting over 900 million pounds of time sensitive freight and mail across our network. Distribution and Marketing AgreementsPassengers can purchase tickets for travel on American through several distribution channels, including our website (www.aa.com), our mobile app, our reservations centers and third party distribution channels, including conventional travel agents, travel management companies and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, including its booking sites Orbitz and Travelocity, and Booking Holdings, including its booking sites Kayak and Priceline). Over the last decade, American has been a leader in deploying new distribution technologies such as IATA New Distribution Capability (NDC) technology, which is now the primary means by which we distribute our content to third parties through aggregators (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre, Travelport and Travelfusion) or through direct connections. NDC technology provides customers access to enhanced content and functionality, providing a simplified booking experience, and enabling us to provide more relevant, tailored offers to customers.To remain competitive, we will need to successfully manage our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of our distribution channels, while maintaining an industry competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We rely on third party distribution channels and must effectively manage the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.Member of oneworld AllianceAmerican is a founding member of the oneworld Alliance, which currently includes Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas Airways (Qantas), Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian Airlines and SriLankan Airlines. Oman Air is expected to join the oneworld Alliance in 2024, and Fiji Airways is a oneworld connect partner offering select alliance benefits to oneworld frequent flyers. The oneworld Alliance links the networks of member carriers and their respective affiliates to enhance customer service and provide smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking member carriers loyalty programs and providing reciprocal access to the carriers airport lounge facilities.Joint Business Agreements and Other Cooperation AgreementsAmerican has established a transatlantic joint business with British Airways, Aer Lingus, Iberia and Finnair, a transpacific joint business with Japan Airlines and a joint business covering Australia and New Zealand with Qantas. Joint business agreements enable the carriers involved to cooperate on flights between particular destinations and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced loyalty program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas. Joint business agreements have become a common approach among major carriers to address key regulatory restrictions typically applicable to international airline service, including limitations on the foreign ownership of airlines and national laws prohibiting foreign airlines from carrying passengers beyond specific gateway cities.We also have established a strategic alliance with Alaska Airlines covering certain routes on the West Coast of the United States and a strategic alliance with Qatar Airways covering the Middle East in order to provide customers with improved schedules and network connection opportunities, enhanced loyalty program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas.9Table of ContentsIn July 2010, in connection with a regulatory review related to our transatlantic joint business, we provided certain commitments to the European Commission (EC) regarding, among other things, the availability of take off and landing slots at London Heathrow (LHR) or London Gatwick (LGW) airports. The commitments accepted by the EC were binding for 10 years. In anticipation of both the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit, and the expiry of the EC commitments in July 2020, the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), in October 2018, opened an investigation into the transatlantic joint business. In September 2020 and April 2022, the CMA adopted interim measures that effectively extend the EC commitments until March 2026 in light of the uncertainty and other impacts resulting from the COVID 19 pandemic. The CMA restarted its investigation in September 2023 after a pause related to the COVID 19 pandemic and plans to complete the investigation before the scheduled expiration of the interim measures in March 2026. We continue to cooperate fully with the CMA.Marketing RelationshipsTo improve access to each others markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers, including American, have established marketing agreements with other airlines. These marketing agreements vary in scope and are intended to provide enhanced customer choice by means of an expanded network with reciprocal loyalty program participation, but do not involve the same level of cooperation as our joint businesses or strategic alliances. As of December 31, 2023, in addition to the relationships described above, American had codeshare, marketing and or loyalty program relationships with Air Tahiti Nui, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, China Southern Airlines Company Limited (China Southern Airlines), EL AL Israel Airlines, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, GOL Linhas Areas Inteligentes S.A. (GOL), Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, IndiGo, JetSMART, Jetstar, Jetstar Japan, Malaysia Airlines, Philippine Airlines, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian Airlines, Silver Airways, SriLankan Airlines and Vueling Airlines.In 2023, we completed codeshare agreements with JetSMART, enabling Americans customers to book travel on JetSMARTs network beyond Santiago, Chile and Lima, Peru, and which will allow for further extension of our network to other markets in South America, such as Argentina, on JetSMART operated flights, subject to all necessary regulatory approvals.Also in 2023, we launched a codeshare partnership with Philippine Airlines. This partnership introduced the first marketed flights by a Philippine carrier to several U.S. destinations and allows Americans customers to travel to Manila and Cebu, Philippines.We had a marketing relationship, the Northeast Alliance arrangement (NEA), with JetBlue Airways Corporation (JetBlue) that included an alliance agreement with reciprocal codesharing on certain domestic and international routes from New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), LaGuardia Airport (LGA) and Newark Liberty International Airport) and Boston Logan International Airport. On May 19, 2023, the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts issued an order permanently enjoining American and JetBlue from continuing and further implementing the NEA. In June 2023, JetBlue delivered a notice of termination of the NEA, effective July 29, 2023, and the carriers have commenced wind down activities to accommodate mutual customers.AAdvantage ProgramOur AAdvantage program was established to develop passenger loyalty by offering benefits and rewards to travelers for their continued patronage with American and our partners. AAdvantage members enjoy exclusive benefits and earn mileage credits for flying on eligible tickets on American, any oneworld Alliance airline or other partner airlines. For every dollar spent by flying on an eligible American ticket, members earn mileage credits, and AAdvantage Gold, AAdvantage Platinum, AAdvantage Platinum Pro and AAdvantage Executive Platinum status holders earn additional bonus mileage credits of 40%, 60%, 80% and 120%, respectively. Members also earn mileage credits by using the services of more than 1,000 non flight partners, such as our co branded credit cards, certain hotel and car rental companies and shopping and dining partners. The AAdvantage program in general, and our co branded credit card programs in particular, are material assets of our business and have become increasingly important to our company over time. During 2023 and 2022, cash payments from co branded credit card and other partners were $5.2 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively.Mileage credits can be redeemed for travel and upgraded experiences on American and participating airlines, membership to our Admirals Club, or for other non flight awards, such as car rentals and hotels, from our program partners. Travel awards are available on all flights operated by American and, subject to capacity controlled seating, on flights operated by our partners. A members mileage credits generally do not expire if that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 24 months or if the AAdvantage member is the primary holder of a co branded credit card. AAdvantage members qualify for status over a 12 month period beginning on March 1 of each year by earning 10Table of ContentsLoyalty Points, which can be earned through a variety of qualifying travel and non travel activities, including use of our co branded credit cards. Status members can enjoy additional travel benefits of the AAdvantage program, including complimentary upgrades, checked bags, and Preferred and Main Cabin Extra seats, as well as priority check in, security, boarding and baggage delivery when traveling on American, any oneworld Alliance airline or select partner airlines. In addition, AAdvantage members can unlock benefits, rewards and choices before, between and beyond the traditional status tiers with Loyalty Point Rewards. In 2023, we introduced a new business loyalty program, AAdvantage Business, which rewards both eligible companies with AAdvantage miles and their travelers with additional Loyalty Points for booking business travel through our website or mobile app.In 2023, the editorial staff of the digital news outlet, The Points Guy, selected AAdvantage as the Best U.S. Airline Loyalty Program. In addition, AAdvantage was recognized for the Best Elite Program in the Americas at the 2023 Freddie Awards, which is based entirely on votes from travelers around the world.Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program partners, we reserve the right to change the terms of the AAdvantage program at any time and without notice. Program rules, partners, special offers, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change.During 2023, our members redeemed approximately 13 million awards, including travel redemptions for flights and upgrades on American and other air carriers, as well as redemption of car and hotel awards, club memberships and merchandise. Approximately 8% of our 2023 total revenue passenger miles flown were from award travel.See Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for more information on our loyalty program.Industry CompetitionDomesticThe markets in which we operate are highly competitive. On most of our domestic nonstop routes, we face competing service from other domestic airlines, including major network airlines, low cost carriers and ultra low cost carriers such as Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines and United Airlines. Between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs, competition is significant. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point to point service on such routes. We also compete with all cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.In general, beyond nonstop city pairs, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers rights to transport passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. In order to improve access to domestic and foreign markets, we have arrangements with other airlines including through the oneworld Alliance, other cooperation agreements, joint business agreements and marketing relationships, as further discussed herein.On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Price competition occurs on a market by market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, targeted promotions and loyalty program initiatives. Airlines typically use discounted fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally weak travel periods, when they begin service to new cities, when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow, to maximize revenue per available seat mile or to establish, increase or preserve market share. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market, and we have often elected to match discounted or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. In addition, we face pricing pressures from so called ultra low cost carriers, such as Allegiant Air, Frontier Airlines and Spirit Airlines, which compete in many of the markets in which we operate, with competition from these carriers increasing and new entrants regularly announcing their intention to start up new ultra low cost carriers.In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle regional carriers increase the number of markets we serve by flying to smaller markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of our competitors also own or have agreements with regional airlines that provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, loyalty programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, health and safety, sustainability initiatives and other services. 11Table of ContentsInternationalIn addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Central and South America, Europe, Qatar, China, Japan, Korea, India, Australia and New Zealand. In providing international air transportation, we compete with other U.S. airlines, foreign investor owned airlines and foreign state owned or state affiliated airlines. Competition has also been increasing from low cost airlines executing international long haul expansion strategies, a trend we expect to continue, in particular with the planned introduction of long range narrowbody aircraft in the coming years.In order to increase our ability to compete in the market for international air transportation service, which is subject to extensive government regulation, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into bilateral and multilateral marketing relationships, alliances, cooperation agreements and joint business agreements to exchange traffic among each others flights and route networks. See Distribution and Marketing Agreements above for further discussion.SustainabilityOperating a sustainable business that has the ability to serve our stakeholders over the long term is an important part of our strategy. We have increased our focus over time on a number of elements that we view as important to build a more sustainable company, including those described below.We have received recognition for our progress toward our sustainability goals. American was named the 2023 Air Transport World Eco Airline of the Year, and in 2023 we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the first time, one of only two passenger airlines included in the index. We also returned to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index in 2023 for the third year in a row.ClimateWe recognize the challenge of climate change and have set ambitious goals to transition to operating a low carbon airline over time. Our aim is to achieve net zero GHG emissions by 2050, and we have set an intermediate target to drive progress toward that goal. We have received validation from the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) that our 2035 GHG reduction target complies with the criteria in the SBTis first aviation pathway.The vast majority of our direct GHG emissions comes from the use of jet fuel in our operations. Our current strategy for reaching net zero GHG emissions by 2050 is focused on running a more fuel efficient operation, with more fuel efficient aircraft, powered by low carbon fuel. To do so, we are working to drive progress across several key levers, including:Continuing to replace older, less fuel efficient aircraft with new, more efficient aircraft over time;Helping scale the production of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) with the aim of transitioning to lower carbon fuels. Currently, SAF is not available at the cost or scale necessary to meet our industrys needs. We continue to enter into agreements to purchase SAF as part of our goal to replace 10% of our conventional jet fuel with SAF in 2030 and to encourage investment in SAF; andEvaluating and investing in innovations that may enable commercial aircraft to be powered by low and no carbon fuel sources over the long term. For example, we have made direct investments in companies working to develop hydrogen electric propulsion technology and green hydrogen distribution. We are also an anchor partner of Breakthrough Energy Catalyst, which aims to make investments to accelerate the development of new clean energy technologies, including SAF.Achieving our ambitious goals will require significant action and investments by governments, manufacturers and other stakeholders. We are committed to engaging with our stakeholders to seek to advance these initiatives, and we have dedicated resources to advance our own progress. Our Board and Corporate Governance and Public Responsibility Committee receive updates on our climate strategy, progress and key risks regularly. Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for oversight of our climate change strategy.12Table of ContentsSafetyThe safety of our customers and team members is a top priority. Our approach to safety is guided by our FAA approved safety management systems (SMS), an organization wide approach to identifying and managing risk. Each SMS is comprised of four components: Safety Policy, Safety Assurance, Safety Risk Management and Safety Promotion. Our Safety Policy sets safety objectives while striving to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and laws in the countries where we operate and establishing standards for acceptable operational behaviors.The Safety Assurance component of our SMS specifies how we use data and conduct quality assurance and internal oversight to validate the effectiveness of risk controls and the performance of the SMS. The Safety Risk Management (SRM) element of our SMS provides a decision making process for identifying hazards and mitigating risk based on a thorough understanding of our systems and their operating environment. We employ SRM whenever there is a significant change to our operations, such as the delivery of new aircraft. Lastly, the Safety Promotion component includes training and raising awareness among team members so that they can spot potential safety events.CustomersWe fly to close to 350 destinations in the United States and internationally, and we are committed to providing our customers with a world class travel experience. We continued to rigorously measure and track customer satisfaction through passenger surveys in 2023, efforts that led to further improvements in our operations and the services we provide. In 2023, we achieved our best ever full year completion factor, with the lowest number of cancellations annually since the 2013 merger with US Airways Group, Inc., which led to a record Likelihood to Recommend score for the full year. Additionally in 2023, we were recognized for the sixth consecutive year with the prestigious Five Star rating in The APEX Official Airline Ratings Global Airline category. This rating is based on verified customer feedback on the overall travel experience.Our PeopleThe airline business is labor intensive, and our team members are critical to delivering for our customers. The operational complexity of our business requires a diverse team of personnel trained and experienced in a variety of technical areas such as flight operations, ground operations, safety and maintenance, customer service and airline scheduling and planning. Fostering a culture where our team members feel supported to take care of our customers is critical to our success. To do this, we must continue to build a diverse and inclusive environment, helping all team members reach their full potential and providing them with the right resources and support.In 2023, mainline and regional salaries, wages and benefits were our largest expense and represented 34% of our total operating expenses. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 132,100 active full time equivalent employees, approximately 87% of whom were represented by various labor unions responsible for negotiating the collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) governing their compensation and job duties, among other things. Talent DevelopmentWe focus on providing our team members the tools, training and resources they need to do their best work. We maintain a suite of programs aimed at helping our people develop the skills and experience they need to succeed in their roles and build rewarding, long term careers within our company. Additionally, we have partnered with leading online learning platforms to make professional development available on demand to all of our team members.Diversity, Equity and InclusionCultivating an environment that celebrates diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) is a priority for us, and we seek to create a workplace where diverse perspectives and experiences are welcomed and encouraged, where team members feel comfortable to be their authentic selves and where we are always learning from one another. Our goal is to make culture a competitive advantage so people will want to work with us, fly with us and invest in us. We are implementing a multiyear strategy focused on embedding DEI throughout our company by:Hiring, engaging and retaining talent for growth;Delivering excellence in our operations to serve and expand our global markets;Striving to have our teams effectively serve the communities we represent; andDriving innovation to build competitive advantages.13Table of ContentsIn 2023, we received a perfect score on the Disability Equality Index for the eighth consecutive year and were named one of the best places to work for disability inclusion. We also received a top score of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign Foundations 2023 2024 Corporate Equality Index, an assessment of LGBTQ+ workplace equality.Competitive Pay and Comprehensive BenefitsWe seek to offer competitive pay, comprehensive benefits and a wide variety of resources designed to support the physical, behavioral and financial well being of our team members and their families, including medical coverage that is intended to be affordable and flexible along with healthcare navigation and support tools.Our internal recognition programs give team members and customers the opportunity to show their appreciation for a job well done, including through our Nonstop Thanks program whereby team members can award each other points for exceptional service or as an expression of gratitude. Recognition points earned through the recognition program can be redeemed for items in an online catalog. In 2023, our team members were recognized by customers, peers and company leaders approximately three million times and more than 1,600 peer nominations were submitted for the annual Circle of Excellence, the highest honor that we bestow upon our team members for their career achievements.Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. Retaining and recruiting people with the appropriate skills became particularly challenging as the economy in general, and the airline industry in particular, recovered from the COVID 19 pandemic, and there remains intense competition for the human resources necessary to operate our business successfully. Like many other airlines, we have experienced and continue to experience periodic shortages of frontline team members as a result. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract, develop and retain additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.Labor RelationsLabor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act (RLA), which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and CBAs.The following table shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by unions:UnionClass or CraftEmployees (1)ContractAmendable DateMainline: Allied Pilots Association (APA)Pilots14,500 2027Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA)Flight Attendants24,950 2019Airline Customer Service Employee Association Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Teamsters (CWA IBT) Passenger Service14,650 2029Transport Workers Union and International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers (TWU IAM Association) Mechanics and Related12,350 2025TWU IAM AssociationFleet Service19,100 2025TWU IAM AssociationStock Clerks2,000 2025TWU IAM AssociationFlight Simulator Engineers150 2025TWU IAM AssociationMaintenance Control Technicians190 2025TWU IAM AssociationMaintenance Training Instructors100 2025Professional Airline Flight Control Association (PAFCA)Dispatchers570 2025Transport Workers Union (TWU)Flight Crew Training Instructors390 202514Table of ContentsUnionClass or CraftEmployees (1)ContractAmendable DateEnvoy: Air Line Pilots Associations (ALPA)Pilots2,070 2029Association of Flight Attendants CWA (AFA)Flight Attendants1,850 2026TWUGround School Instructors10 2027TWUMechanics and Related1,200 2027TWUStock Clerks130 2027TWUSimulator Instructors20 2026TWUFleet Service4,020 2026TWUDispatchers70 2025Communications Workers of America (CWA)Passenger Service7,000 2026Piedmont: ALPAPilots640 2029AFAFlight Attendants310 2026International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)Mechanics and Related470 2026IBTStock Clerks60 2026CWAFleet and Passenger Service6,650 2023IBTDispatchers40 2025ALPAFlight Crew Training Instructors70 2029PSA: ALPAPilots1,500 2028AFAFlight Attendants1,190 2023International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers (IAM)Mechanics and Related680 2027TWUDispatchers40 2024ALPAFlight Crew Training Instructors80 2028(1)Represents approximate number of active employees as of December 31, 2023.In 2023, a new four year CBA was ratified by the APA, the union representing our mainline pilots. Additionally, in January 2024, a new five year CBA was ratified by the CWA IBT, which is amendable in 2029. The CBA covering our mainline flight attendants is now amendable and negotiations continue. Among our wholly owned regional subsidiaries, Piedmont fleet and passenger service and PSA flight attendants have agreements that are now amendable and are engaged in negotiations.For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor related disruptions may adversely affect our operations and financial performance.Aircraft FuelOur operations and financial results are materially affected by the availability and price of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Based on our 2024 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that a one cent per gallon increase in the price of aircraft fuel would increase our 2024 annual fuel expense by approximately $45 million.15Table of ContentsThe following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for our mainline and regional operations for 2023 and 2022 (gallons and aircraft fuel expense in millions).YearGallonsAverage Priceper GallonAircraft FuelExpensePercent of TotalOperating Expenses20234,140$2.96$12,25725%20223,901$3.54$13,79129%As of December 31, 2023, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review this policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in aircraft fuel prices.Aircraft fuel prices have in the past, and may in the future, experience substantial volatility. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is very dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on consumer demand, our operating results and liquidity.Seasonality and Other FactorsDue to the greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry exhibit seasonal patterns based on the peak travel periods. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, geopolitical factors and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Therefore, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.Domestic and Global Regulatory LandscapeGeneralAirlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Domestically, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.The DOT, among other things, oversees and regulates domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, competition and consumer protection matters including accessibility, the display and sharing of ancillary fee information and refund practices. The Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, along with the DOT in certain instances, have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.The FAA similarly exercises safety oversight and regulates most operational matters of our business, including how we operate and maintain our aircraft. FAA requirements cover, among other things, required technology and necessary onboard equipment; systems, procedures and training necessary to ensure the continuous airworthiness of our fleet of aircraft; safety measures and equipment; crew scheduling limitations and experience requirements; and many other technical aspects of airline operations. Additionally, our pilots and other employees are subject to rigorous certification standards, and our pilots and other crew members must adhere to flight time and rest requirements.The FAA also controls the national airspace system, including operational rules and fees for air traffic control (ATC) services. The efficiency, reliability and capacity of the ATC network has a significant impact on our costs and on the timeliness of our operations.The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.Airport Access and OperationsDomestically, any U.S. airline authorized by the DOT is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its territories, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take off rights and authorizations (slots) and other facilities, and certain airports that impose geographic limitations on operations or curtail operations based on the time of day. Operations at three major domestic airports we serve (JFK and LGA in New York City, and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) near Washington, D.C.) and many foreign airports we serve (including LHR) are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms 16Table of Contentsthat limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at and take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. In addition to slot restrictions, operations at DCA and LGA are also limited based on a so called perimeter rule which generally limits the stage length of the flights that can be operated from those airports to 1,250 and 1,500 miles, respectively. Generally, our ability to retain slots is conditioned on the continued use of such slots, and in the absence of use, the slots are subject to forfeiture. In certain circumstances, such as during the COVID 19 pandemic, regulators may issue slot waivers which temporarily suspend or amend slot usage requirements, and we have used slot waivers at times to reduce flying levels during periods of reduced demand for travel. Moreover, on multiple occasions in 2023, the FAA issued slot waivers for New York City area airports as a result of operational challenges arising from air traffic control staffing shortages; those waivers expire in October 2024, and we cannot guarantee that such waivers will be made available to us, or that upon expiration or cancellation of such waivers it will be economical for us to resume prior levels of flying to destinations where we have operated a reduced service. If we are forced to surrender slots or other rights, we may be unable to provide our desired level of service to or from certain destinations in the future. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations.Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports where the airport gates and other facilities are currently inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide, or where we have no access to gates at all.Existing law also permits domestic local airport authorities to implement procedures and impose restrictions designed to abate noise, provided such procedures and restrictions do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs.Airline Fares, Taxes and User FeesAirlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but only applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve.Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the ticket tax, on domestic and international air transportation, and to collect other taxes and charge other fees, such as foreign taxes, security fees and passenger facility charges. Although these taxes and fees are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. These taxes and fees are subject to increase from time to time.DOT Passenger Protection RulesThe DOT regulates airline interactions with passengers through the ticketing process, at the airport and onboard the aircraft. Among other things, these regulations govern how our fares are displayed online, required customer disclosures, access by disabled passengers, handling of long onboard flight delays and reporting of mishandled bags. In 2023, the DOT finalized rules for accessible lavatories on single aisle aircraft and has continued to work through proposals for a number of disability regulations that will impact us, including penalties for wheelchair loss or damage and prompt wheelchair assistance. The DOT has also proposed rules requiring refunds for cancellations and significant delays and rules mandating the display of ancillary fees during the initial itinerary search.InternationalInternational air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation, including aviation agreements between the U.S. and other countries or governmental authorities, such as the EU. Moreover, our alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. The U.S. government has negotiated open skies agreements with more than 130 trading partners, which allow unrestricted route authority access between the U.S. and the foreign markets.In addition, foreign countries impose passenger protection rules, which are analogous to, and often meet or exceed the requirements of, the DOT passenger protection rules discussed above. In cases where these foreign requirements exceed the DOT rules, we may bear additional burdens and liabilities. Further, various foreign airport authorities impose noise and curfew restrictions at their local airports.17Table of ContentsSecurityAll aspects of civil aviation and border security in the U.S. affecting U.S. carriers are controlled or regulated by the federal government through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). The TSA is responsible for the security of the nations transportation systems. The TSAs requirements for aviation security include, among other things, screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; carriage of federal air marshals at no charge; and continuous background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer funds. The CBP is responsible for securing the nations borders by combining customs, immigration and agricultural protection. The CBP regulatory requirements include the transmission of advanced passport data to facilitate the U.S. entry process. Funding for a portion of CBP operations is provided by a combination of fees collected by airlines. Our international service further requires us to comply with host government civil aviation security regimes and foreign border control authorities.Environmental MattersEnvironmental RegulationThe airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies may promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations that are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.Revised underground storage tank regulations issued by the EPA in 2015 have affected certain airport fuel hydrant systems, with modifications of such systems needed in order to comply with applicable portions of the revised regulations. In addition, related to the EPA and state regulations pertaining to storm water management, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of deicing fluid into the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport deicing facilities. Additionally, compliance with updated federal and state regulations governing fire extinguishing foams are expected to require modification to fire suppression systems that we operate, as well as those maintained by airports. On November 23, 2022, the EPA also published the final rule for particulate matter emission standards and test procedures for civil aircraft engines, which took effect on December 23, 2022. These or similar regulations could directly or indirectly result in increased compliance costs, but at this time we do not expect these costs to be material.The environmental laws include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We presently anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations.We employ an environmental management system that provides a systematic approach for compliance with environmental regulations and management of a broad range of environmental issues, including but not limited to air emissions, hazardous waste, underground tanks, and aircraft water quality. Global and Domestic Regulation Related to Climate ChangeClimate change related regulatory activity and developments may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to adapt to rapidly evolving domestic and international regulation and to achieve emission reductions before cost effective technologies are available, for example, through requirements to make capital investments to purchase specific types of equipment or technologies, purchase carbon offset credits or otherwise incur additional costs related to our emissions. Such trends may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs.18Table of ContentsThe Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA)We are subject to the requirements of the CORSIA, an international, market based emissions reduction program adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) in 2016. CORSIA is intended to achieve carbon neutral growth in the international aviation sector from 2021 until 2035 through the purchase of certain types of carbon offset credits or the use of eligible renewable fuels.For each year from 2021 through 2032, CORSIA requires airlines to compensate for the rate of growth of GHG emissions of the aviation sector as a whole, relative to a predetermined baseline as determined by ICAO. ICAO originally defined the baseline as the average emissions from covered flights in 2019 and 2020. However, due to the impact of the COVID 19 pandemic on air travel, in June 2020, ICAO removed 2020 from the baseline calculation for the CORSIA pilot phase (2021 2023). In October 2022, ICAO member countries agreed that 85% of 2019 emissions would be used as the baseline for the remainder of CORSIAs term (2024 2035).The CORSIA program is being implemented in three phases: a pilot phase that ran from 2021 through 2023, followed by a first phase of the program beginning in 2024 through 2026 and a second phase beginning in 2027 through 2035. ICAO member countries are expected to enact legislation to implement CORSIA. We expect to be required to purchase carbon offset credits to comply with CORSIAs first phase, however, the U.S. government has not yet enacted implementation legislation.Our future costs of CORSIA compliance are uncertain due to the uncertainty with respect to the future growth of covered GHG emissions, the supply and price of CORSIA eligible carbon offset credits and development of the market for eligible renewable fuels.European GHG Emissions RegulationsOn May 16, 2023, revisions to the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) were published in the Official Journal of the EU. Pursuant to these revisions, the allocation of emissions allowances currently granted for free to aircraft operators under the EU ETS will be phased out by 2026, and CORSIA will apply to flights to and from EU countries that are ICAO member countries. The EC will also be required to undertake a review in 2026 to determine whether CORSIA is sufficiently delivering on the goals of the Paris Agreement and, to the extent it is determined not to be, would extend the scope of the EU ETS to include all departing flights from the European Economic Area (EEA) (and not just flights within the EEA and flights departing the EEA to the United Kingdom and Switzerland).In 2023, the European Parliament and the European Council formally adopted the EUs ReFuelEU Aviation initiative to create a SAF blending mandate for aviation fuel suppliers. The agreed text requires fuel suppliers to ensure that minimum shares of SAF are made available to aircraft operators at EU airports starting January 1, 2025. Such minimum requirements are 2% in 2025, 6% in 2030, 20% in 2035, 34% in 2040, 42% in 2045 and 70% in 2050. In addition, a specific proportion of the fuel mix (1.2% in 2030, 2% in 2032, 5% in 2035 and progressively reaching 35% in 2050) must comprise synthetic fuels such as e kerosene, and as of 2025, there will be an EU label for the environmental performance of flights, such that airlines may market their flights indicating the expected carbon footprint per passenger. The potential effects on our business of such requirements are uncertain at this time. The UK and other countries have adopted or are considering adoption of a SAF blending mandate similar to that of the EU.U.S. Emissions Standards for Aircraft EnginesIn January 2021, the EPA adopted GHG emission standards for new aircraft engines, which are aligned with the 2017 ICAO aircraft engine GHG emission standards. Like the ICAO standards, the final EPA standards for new aircraft engines would not apply retroactively to engines on in service aircraft. On November 15, 2021, the EPA announced that it would not rewrite the existing aircraft engine GHG emissions standards but would seek more ambitious new aircraft GHG emission standards within the ICAO process. Since then, the EPA and ICAOs Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection have had several meetings on this issue, but no further progress has been made. In addition, several states and environmental groups have challenged the EPAs standards and on June 30, 2023, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit denied such petitions and upheld the EPAs GHG emissions standards.For more information on our approach to climate change, see our 2022 Sustainability Report on our website www.aa.com available under Environmental, Social and Governance. None of the information or contents under our Environmental, Social and Governance page, 2022 Sustainability Report, or our website are incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K.19Table of ContentsImpact of Regulatory Requirements on Our BusinessRegulatory requirements, including but not limited to those discussed above, affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries, and future regulatory developments may continue to do the same. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors Evolving cybersecurity and data privacy requirements (in particular, compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign laws relating to handling of personal information about individuals) could increase our costs, and any significant cybersecurity or data privacy incident could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, expose us to legal risks and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations, Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages, The airline industry is heavily taxed, We are subject to many forms of environmental and noise regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result, and We are subject to risks associated with climate change, including increased regulation of our GHG emissions, changing consumer preferences and the potential for increased impacts of severe weather events on our operations and infrastructure.Available InformationUse of Websites to Disclose InformationOur website is located at www.aa.com. We have made, and expect in the future to make, public disclosures to investors and the general public of information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries by means of the investor relations section of our website as well as through the use of our social media sites, including Facebook and X. In order to receive notifications regarding new postings to our website, investors are encouraged to enroll on our website to receive automatic email alerts (see https://americanairlines.gcs web.com/email alerts), follow American (@AmericanAir) on X and like American on our Facebook page (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines). None of the information or contents of our website or social media postings is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Availability of SEC ReportsA copy of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.20Table of Contents
</SECTION>
