<SECTION>
Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties.GeneralAdams Resources & Energy, Inc. (AE) is a publicly traded Delaware corporation organized in 1973. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE American LLC (NYSE American) under the ticker symbol AE. Through our subsidiaries, we are primarily engaged in crude oil marketing, truck and pipeline transportation of crude oil, and terminalling and storage in various crude oil and natural gas basins in the lower 48 states of the United States (U.S.). In addition, we conduct tank truck transportation of liquid chemicals, pressurized gases, asphalt and dry bulk primarily in the lower 48 states of the U.S. with deliveries into Canada and Mexico, and with seventeen terminals across the U.S. We also recycle and repurpose off specification fuels, lubricants, crude oil and other chemicals from producers in the U.S. Our headquarters are located in 22,197 square feet of office space located at 17 South Briar Hollow Lane, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77027. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to we, us, our, the Company or AE are intended to mean the business and operations of Adams Resources & Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.We operate and report in four business segments: (i) crude oil marketing, transportation and storage; (ii) tank truck transportation of liquid chemicals, pressurized gases, asphalt and dry bulk; (iii) pipeline transportation, terminalling and storage of crude oil; and (iv) interstate bulk transportation logistics of crude oil, condensate, fuels, oils and other petroleum products and recycling and repurposing of off specification fuels, lubricants, crude oil and other chemicals. For detailed financial information regarding our business segments, see Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Business SegmentsCrude Oil MarketingOur crude oil marketing segment consists of the operations of our wholly owned subsidiary, GulfMark Energy, Inc. (GulfMark). Our crude oil marketing activities generate revenue from the sale and delivery of crude oil purchased either directly from producers or from others on the open market. We also derive revenue from third party transportation contracts. We purchase crude oil and arrange sales and deliveries to refiners and other customers, primarily onshore in Texas, North Dakota, Michigan, Wyoming, Colorado and Louisiana. 2Table of ContentsOur crude oil marketing activities includes a fleet of 163 tractor trailer rigs, the majority of which we own and operate, used to transport crude oil. We also maintain approximately 180 pipeline inventory locations or injection stations. We have the ability to barge crude oil from six crude oil storage facilities along the Intracoastal Waterway of Texas and Louisiana, and we have access to approximately 889,000 barrels of storage capacity at the dock facilities in order to access waterborne markets for our products. The following table shows the age of our owned and leased tractors and trailers within our crude oil marketing segment at December 31, 2023: Tractors (1)Trailers (2)Model Year:202427 2 202321 10 202235 202116 202044 201913 20182 20172 20151 10 20142 24 2013 27 2012 12 2011 80 2010 and earlier 21 Total163 186 (1)Includes twenty seven 2024 tractors, twenty one 2023 tractors, sixteen 2021 tractors and five 2019 tractors that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. (2)Includes two 2024 trailers, one 2007 trailer and two 2004 trailers that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We purchase crude oil at the field (wellhead) level. Volume and price information were as follows for the periods indicated:Year Ended December 31,202320222021Field level purchase volumes per day (1)Crude oil barrels87,985 94,873 89,061 Average purchase priceCrude oil per barrel$74.96 $92.63 $65.48 (1)Reflects the volume purchased from third parties at the field level of operations.3Table of ContentsField level purchase volumes depict our day to day operations of acquiring crude oil at the wellhead, transporting crude oil, and delivering it to market sales points. We held crude oil inventory at a weighted average composite price as follows at the dates indicated (in barrels): December 31,202320222021AverageAverageAverageBarrelsPriceBarrelsPriceBarrelsPriceCrude oil inventory267,731 $72.35 328,562 $78.39 259,489 $71.86 We deliver physical supplies to refinery customers or enter into commodity exchange transactions from time to time to protect from a decline in inventory valuation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we had sales to two customers that comprised approximately 11.4 percent and 11.1 percent, respectively, of total consolidated revenues. We believe alternative market outlets for our commodity sales are readily available and a loss of any of these customers would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding credit risk.Operating results for our crude oil marketing segment are sensitive to a number of factors. These factors include commodity location, grades of product, individual customer demand for grades or location of product, localized market price structures, availability of transportation facilities, actual delivery volumes that vary from expected quantities, and the timing and costs to deliver the commodity to the customer. TransportationOur transportation segment consists of the operations of our wholly owned subsidiary, Service Transport Company (STC). STC transports liquid chemicals, pressurized gases, asphalt and dry bulk on a for hire basis throughout the continental U.S., and into Canada and Mexico. For deliveries into Mexico, our drivers meet a third party carrier at the border, and the third party contractor delivers the products to the customer within Mexico. We do not own any of the products that we haul; rather we act as a third party carrier to deliver our customers products from point A to point B, using predominately our employees and our owned or leased tractors and trailers. However, we also use contracted independent owner operators to provide transportation services. Transportation services are provided to customers under multiple load contracts in addition to loads covered under STCs standard price list. Our customers include major oil and chemical companies and large and mid sized industrial companies. STC operates seventeen terminals in ten states: (i) Texas, with terminals in Houston, Corpus Christi, Nederland and Freeport; (ii) Louisiana, with terminals in Baton Rouge (St. Gabriel), St. Rose and Sterlington; (iii) Florida, with terminals in Jacksonville and Tampa; (iv) Augusta, Georgia; (v) Mobile, Alabama; (vi) Charlotte, North Carolina; (vii) Cincinnati, Ohio; (viii) South Charleston, West Virginia; (ix) Memphis, Tennessee; and (x) Illinois, with terminals in East St. Louis and Joliet. The St. Gabriel, Louisiana and the Corpus Christi, Texas terminals are situated on 11.5 acres and 3.5 acres, respectively, that we own, and both include an office building, maintenance bays and tank cleaning facilities. Transportation operations are headquartered at a terminal facility situated on 26.5 acres that we own in Houston, Texas. This property includes maintenance facilities, administrative offices and terminal facility, tank wash rack facilities and a water treatment system. Pursuant to regulatory requirements, STC holds a Hazardous Materials Certificate of Registration issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT).4Table of ContentsThe following table shows the age of our owned and leased tractors and trailers within our transportation segment at December 31, 2023:Tractors (1) (2)Trailers (3)Model Year:202424 34 202337 22 202231 51 202133 12 2020129 100 201949 2018 20 2016 6 20152 75 2014 34 2013 5 2012 28 2008 and earlier 348 Total305 735 (1)Excludes 90 contracted independent owner operator tractors.(2)Includes fifteen 2024 tractors, thirty five 2023 tractors and thirty three 2021 tractors that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. (3)Includes fourteen 2024 trailers, twenty two 2023 trailers, twenty 2020 trailers and twenty 2018 trailers that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Miles traveled was as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31,202320222021Mileage25,487 26,510 27,902 All company and independent contractor tractors are equipped with in cab communication technology, enabling two way communications between our dispatch office and our drivers, through both standardized and free form messaging, including electronic logging. We have also installed electronic logging devices (ELDs) on 100 percent of our tractor fleet. This technology enables us to dispatch drivers efficiently in response to customers requests and to provide real time information to customers about the status of their shipments. We have also equipped our tractor fleet with forward facing and inward facing event recorders. These cameras are constantly recording the movements of the vehicles, and our management team is alerted via email in the event the unit triggers a G force event. A snapshot of this recording is then sent to our management team for review.STC holds the American Chemistry Councils certification as a Responsible Care Management System (RCMS) company. The scope of this RCMS certification covers the carriage of bulk liquids throughout STCs area of operations as well as the tank trailer cleaning facilities and equipment maintenance. Certification was granted based on STCs conformance to the RCMSs comprehensive environmental health, safety and security requirements. STCs quality management process is one of its major assets. The practice of using statistical process control covering safety, on time performance and customer satisfaction aids continuous improvement in all areas of quality service.5Table of ContentsSTC is a Partner in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) SmartWay Transport Partnership, a national voluntary program developed by the EPA and freight industry representatives to reduce greenhouse gases and air pollution and promote cleaner, more efficient ground freight transportation. During 2020, STC applied for and received its first bronze star rating from EcoVadis, a global leader in monitoring, benchmarking and enabling sustainability in global supply chains. During 2022, STC won the National Tank Truck Carriers (NTTC) Heil Trophy Award for its 2021 efforts. This esteemed award recognizes tank truck operations in North America with the best safety program and safety record for the year. STC claimed NTTCs Heil Trophy Award in the Harvison division, which spotlights carriers whose trucks traveled more than 15 million miles during the previous year. NTTCs longest running safety contest annually recognizes North American for hire and private tank truck fleets with elite safety programs and records. Winners are determined by their safety records, safety and preventive maintenance programs, personnel safety programs and record, and contributions to tank truck industry and general highway safety causes.STC is a member of Texas TRANSCAER, a non profit organization with membership from the chemical, transportation and emergency response industries. The mission of Texas TRANSCAER is to promote safe transportation and handling of hazardous materials, educate about the safety and security of hazardous materials that are transported through communities, and provide education and training for emergency responders along transportation routes. As members of Texas TRANSCAER, STC Safety Personnel assist with training events for first responders all over Texas.Our strategy is to build long term relationships with our customers based upon the highest level of customer service, safety and reliability. We believe that our commitment to safety, flexibility, size and capabilities provide us with a competitive advantage over other carriers. Pipeline and StorageOur pipeline and storage segment consists of the operations of two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, which constitute the VEX Pipeline System: (i) Victoria Express Pipeline, L.L.C. (VEX), which we acquired on October 22, 2020 and which owns the VEX pipeline, and (ii) GulfMark Terminals, LLC (GMT), which was formed in October 2020 to hold the related terminal facility assets we acquired with the VEX Pipeline System. The VEX Pipeline System complements our existing storage terminal and dock at the Port of Victoria, where with our crude oil marketing segment, we control approximately 450,000 barrels of storage with three docks. Through 2021, pipeline and storage segment revenues were earned from a third party shipper under a contract that had been in place at the time of the acquisition, and revenues were also earned from GulfMark, an affiliated shipper. The third party contract ended in 2021, and all pipeline and storage segment revenues through mid 2023 were earned from GulfMark. In mid 2023, we began receiving revenue from an unaffiliated shipper. We are also currently constructing a new pipeline connection between the VEX Pipeline System and the Max Midstream pipeline system, and we expect to complete construction and place the assets into commercial service during the second half of 2024. In addition, we are exploring new connections with several other pipeline systems, for new crude oil supply opportunities both upstream and downstream of the pipeline, to enhance the crude oil supply and take away capability of the system.Volume information was as follows for the periods indicated (in barrels per day):Year Ended December 31,202320222021Pipeline throughput9,140 11,084 7,670 Terminalling10,026 11,296 8,132 6Table of ContentsThe VEX Pipeline System, with truck and storage terminals at both Cuero and the Port of Victoria, Texas, is a crude oil and condensate pipeline system, which connects the heart of the Eagle Ford Basin to the Gulf Coast waterborne market. The VEX Pipeline System includes 56 miles of 12 inch pipeline, which spans DeWitt County to Port of Victoria in Victoria County, Texas, with approximately 400,000 barrels of above ground storage at its two terminals. The pipeline system has a current capacity of 90,000 barrels per day and is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Texas Railroad Commission. The VEX Pipeline System can receive crude oil by pipeline and truck, and has downstream pipeline connections to two terminals today, with potential for additional downstream connection opportunities in the future. The Cuero terminal has 40,000 barrels per day of offload capacity via eight truck unloading stations, with two 100,000 barrel storage tanks and one 16,000 barrel storage tank. The Port of Victoria terminal has 30,000 barrels per day of truck offload capacity via six truck unloading stations and water access via two barge docks, which have been leased from the Port Authority in Victoria. The Port of Victoria has four 50,000 barrel storage tanks and one 10,000 barrel storage tank. The VEX Pipeline System supports GulfMarks Gulf Coast region crude oil supply and marketing business and integrates into GulfMarks value chain, serving as the link between producers/operators and our end user markets we supply directly along the Gulf Coast waterborne market. We have the opportunity to increase our efficiency by more effectively managing the pipeline and terminalling portion of our overall transportation costs. Logistics and RepurposingOur logistics and repurposing segment consists of the operations of two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Firebird and Phoenix, which we acquired on August 12, 2022. Firebird is headquartered in Humble, Texas, and currently operates seven terminal locations throughout Texas. Firebird transports crude oil, condensate, fuels, oils and other petroleum products on a for hire basis largely in the Eagle Ford basin. We do not own any of the products that we haul through Firebird; rather we act as a third party carrier to deliver our customers products from point A to point B, using predominately our employees and our owned or leased tractors and trailers. However, we also use contracted independent owner operators to provide transportation services. Firebird provides transportation services to customers under multiple load contracts in addition to loads covered under its standard price list. Our customers include major oil and chemical companies and large and mid sized industrial companies. Firebird provides transportation services to Phoenix, and crude oil transportation services to GulfMark, when additional trucking capacity is required. Phoenix is also headquartered in Humble, Texas. Phoenix repurposes and finds beneficial uses for off specification fuels, lubricants, crude oil and other chemicals from producers in the U.S. With an advanced laboratory, sophisticated technology, and access to an expansive fleet of trucks, Phoenix can provide a solution for customers needing help managing off specification fuels or oils. In addition to the removal from the customer site, Phoenix markets these refinery and plant co products into the fuels or feedstock markets. Phoenix markets on approximately six different levels, ranging from heavy fuel oils to light end naphthas. Phoenix utilizes Firebirds fleet to assist in the transportation of these products, and has begun to utilize STC to also assist in the transportation of these products. On May 4, 2023, we acquired approximately 10.6 acres of land in the Gulf Inland Industrial Park, located in Dayton, Texas, for approximately $1.8 million to build a new processing facility for Phoenix with rail spur and siding, product storage, and truck rack. Phoenix intends to build new infrastructure to service its existing customers and to create opportunities for growing the business. Phoenix also plans to relocate its headquarters from Humble, Texas to this new location. We expect to break ground on the Dayton facility during the second quarter of 2024. When completed, this facility will allow us to operate our rail and trucking business more efficiently, as well as open up opportunities to process a wider variety of products. 7Table of ContentsThe following table shows the age of our owned and leased tractors and trailers within our logistics and repurposing segment at December 31, 2023:Tractors (1) (2)TrailersModel Year:202415 202317 2022 2 202121 1 202014 2 201916 2 201823 3 2017 1 20166 5 20157 18 20143 31 20131 15 20126 43 2011 16 2010 and earlier8 71 Total137 210 (1)Excludes 10 contracted independent owner operator tractors.(2)Includes six 2024 tractors and two 2023 tractors that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.All company and independent tractors in this segment are equipped with similar in cab communication technology and event recorders as our STC tractors, described above under Transportation. All tractors are also equipped with electronic logs. Investment in Unconsolidated AffiliateWe own an approximate 15 percent equity interest (less than 3 percent voting interest) in VestaCare, Inc., a California corporation (VestaCare), through Adams Resources Medical Management, Inc. (ARMM), a wholly owned subsidiary. We acquired our interest in VestaCare in April 2016 for a $2.5 million cash payment, which we impaired in 2017. VestaCare provides an array of software as a service (SaaS) electronic payment technologies to medical providers, payers and patients including VestaCares product offering, VestaPay. VestaPay allows medical care providers to structure fully automated and dynamically updating electronic payment plans for their patients. We do not currently have any plans to pursue additional medical related investments. See Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. CompetitionIn all phases of our operations, we encounter strong competition from a number of regional and national entities. Many of these competitors possess financial resources substantially in excess of ours and may have a more expansive geographic footprint than we have. We face competition principally in establishing trade credit, pricing of available materials, quality of service and location of service. Our strategy is to build long term partnerships with our customers based upon the safety of our operations, reliability and superior customer service. 8Table of ContentsOur crude oil marketing segment and our logistics and repurposing segment compete with major crude oil companies and other large industrial concerns that own or control significant refining, midstream and marketing facilities. These major crude oil companies may offer their products to others on more favorable terms than those available to us.In the trucking industry, the tank lines transportation business is extremely competitive and fragmented. Price, service and location are the major competitive factors in each local market.SeasonalityIn the trucking industry, revenue has historically followed a seasonal pattern for various commodities and customer businesses. Peak freight demand has historically occurred in the months of September, October and November. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, freight volumes are typically lower as many customers reduce shipment levels. Operating expenses have historically been higher in the winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather related maintenance costs, and increased insurance claim costs attributable to adverse winter weather conditions. Revenue can also be impacted by weather, holidays and the number of business days that occur during a given period, as revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers.Although our crude oil marketing segment and our logistics and repurposing segment are not materially affected by seasonality, certain aspects of our operations are impacted by seasonal changes, such as tropical weather conditions, energy demand in connection with heating and cooling requirements and the summer driving season. Inflation and Other Cost IncreasesMost of our operating expenses are inflation sensitive, with inflation generally producing increased costs of operations. We are experiencing increased inflation in the costs of various goods and services we use to operate our business, including the cost of equipment, tires, repairs and maintenance and compensation paid to drivers. These and other factors may continue to impact our costs, expenses and capital expenditures, and could continue to have an impact on customer demand for our services as customers manage the impact of inflation on their resources.In order to mitigate the effect of price increases on our business, from time to time, we enter into monthly commodity purchase and sale contracts for up to 300,000 barrels of crude oil and commodity purchase contracts for the purchase of diesel fuel. See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these contracts. In addition to inflation, fluctuations in fuel prices can affect profitability. Most of our transportation contracts with customers contain fuel surcharge provisions. Although we historically have been able to pass through most long term increases in fuel prices and operating taxes to transportation customers in the form of surcharges and higher rates, there is no guarantee that this will be possible in the future. In addition, we are not able to obtain the benefit of a fuel surcharge on the crude oil marketing segment private fleet. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.9Table of ContentsRegulatory MattersWe are subject to an extensive variety of evolving federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations governing the storage, transportation, manufacture, use, discharge, release and disposal of product and contaminants into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Below is a non exclusive listing of the environmental laws, each as amended, that potentially impact our business.The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976.The Clean Water Act of 1972.The Clean Air Act of 1970.The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act.The Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976.The Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act.The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.Texas Clean Air Act.Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act.Texas Water Code.Texas Oil Spill Prevention and Response Act of 1991.Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC)The RRC regulates, among other things, the drilling and operation of crude oil and natural gas wells, the operation of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, the disposal of crude oil and natural gas production wastes, and certain storage of crude oil and natural gas in Texas. RRC regulations govern the generation, management and disposal of waste from these crude oil and natural gas operations and provide for the cleanup of contamination from crude oil and natural gas operations. These regulations primarily affect our crude oil marketing segment, our pipeline and storage segment and our logistics and repurposing segment. Louisiana Office of ConservationThe Louisiana Office of Conservation has primary statutory responsibility for regulation and conservation of crude oil, natural gas, and other natural resources in the State of Louisiana. Their objectives are to (i) regulate the exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas and other hydrocarbons, (ii) control and allocate energy supplies and distribution thereof, and (iii) protect public safety and the environment from oilfield waste, including the regulation of underground injection and disposal practices.Trucking Activities Our crude oil marketing, transportation and logistics and repurposing businesses operate truck fleets pursuant to the authority of the DOT and various state authorities. Trucking operations must be conducted in accordance with various laws relating to pollution and environmental control as well as safety requirements prescribed by states and by the DOT. Matters such as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. These regulations also require mandatory drug testing of drivers and require certain tests for alcohol levels in drivers and other safety personnel. The regulations also impose hours of service restrictions and mandatory rest periods. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes, such as increasingly stringent environmental requirements or limits on vehicle weight and size. Regulatory change may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for private and common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. In addition, our tank wash facilities are subject to increasingly stringent local, state and federal environmental regulations.10Table of ContentsWe have implemented security procedures for drivers and terminal facilities. Satellite tracking transponders installed in the power units are used to communicate emergencies to us and to maintain constant information as to the units location. If necessary, our terminal personnel will notify local law enforcement agencies. In addition, we are able to advise a customer of the status and location of their loads. Remote cameras and enhanced lighting coverage in the staging and parking areas have augmented terminal security. We have a focus on safety in the communities in which we operate, including leveraging camera technology to enhance driver behavior and awareness. Our crude oil marketing and transportation businesses are Partners in the EPAs SmartWay Transport Partnership, a national voluntary program developed by the EPA and freight industry representatives to reduce greenhouse gases and air pollution and promote cleaner, more efficient ground freight transportation. FERC RegulationThe VEX Pipeline System, which we acquired in 2020, is regulated by the FERC as a common carrier interstate pipeline under the Interstate Commerce Act (ICA), the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and related rules and orders. The ICA and its implementing regulations give the FERC authority to regulate the rates charged for service on interstate common carrier pipelines and generally require the rates and practices of interstate liquids pipelines to be just, reasonable, not unduly discriminatory and not unduly preferential. The ICA also requires tariffs that set forth the rates a common carrier pipeline charges for providing transportation services on its interstate common carrier liquids pipelines, as well as the rules and regulations governing these services, to be maintained on file with the FERC and posted publicly. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 and its implementing regulations allow interstate common carrier liquids pipelines to annually index their rates up to a prescribed ceiling level and require that such pipelines index their rates down to the prescribed ceiling level if the index is negative. In addition, the FERC retains cost of service ratemaking, market based rates and settlement rates as alternatives to the indexing approach. The ICA also permits interested parties to challenge new or changed rates and gives the FERC the authority to change rates and order refunds.Changes in the FERCs methodologies for approving rates could adversely affect us. In addition, challenges to our regulated rates could be filed with the FERC and future decisions by the FERC regarding our regulated rates could adversely affect our cash flows. We believe the transportation rates currently charged by our interstate liquids pipeline is in accordance with the ICA and applicable FERC regulations. However, we cannot predict the rates we will be allowed to charge in the future for transportation services by such pipeline.Pipeline SafetyWe are subject to regulation by the DOT as authorized under various provisions of Title 49 of the United States Code and comparable state statutes relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of our pipeline facilities. Among other things, these statutes also require companies that own or operate pipelines to permit access to and copying of pertinent records, file certain reports and provide other information as required by the U.S. Secretary of Transportation. The DOT regulates natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines through its Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). PHMSA continues to implement and enforce these rules and has discretion to assess significant fines should non compliance be determined.The development and or implementation of more stringent requirements pursuant to DOT regulations, as well as any implementation of the PHMSA rules thereunder or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect thereto, may result in us incurring significant and unanticipated expenditures to comply with such standards. Until any such proposed regulations or guidance are finalized or issued, the impact on our operations, if any, cannot be known.11Table of ContentsRegulatory Status and Potential Environmental LiabilityOur operations and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including those described above, as well as associated permitting and licensing requirements. We regard compliance with applicable environmental regulations as a critical component of our overall operation, and devote significant attention to providing quality service and products to our customers, protecting the health and safety of our employees, and protecting our facilities from damage. We have, where appropriate, implemented operating procedures at each of our facilities designed to assure compliance with environmental laws and regulation. However, given the nature of our business, we are subject to environmental risks, and the possibility remains that our ownership of our facilities and our operations and activities could result in civil or criminal enforcement and public as well as private actions against us, which may necessitate or generate mandatory cleanup activities, revocation of required permits or licenses, denial of application for future permits, and or significant fines, penalties or damages, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion.Human Capital ResourcesGeneralOur business strategy and ability to serve customers relies on employing talented professionals and attracting, training, developing and retaining a skilled workforce. There is substantial competition for qualified truck drivers in the trucking industry. Recruitment, training, and retention of a professional driver workforce is essential to our continued growth and fulfillment of customer needs. We hire qualified professional drivers who hold a valid commercial drivers license, satisfy applicable federal and state safety performance and measurement requirements, and meet our hiring criteria. These guidelines relate primarily to safety history, road test evaluations, and various other evaluations, which include physical examinations and mandatory drug and alcohol testing. We provide comfortable, late model equipment, encourage direct communication with management, pay competitive wages and benefits, and offer other incentives intended to encourage driver safety, retention and long term employment. Prior to being released for individual duty, each new hire is required to undergo a mandatory training and evaluation period by a certified driver trainer/instructor. The length of this training period will be dependent on experience and the new hire adaptation to company policies and procedures.Employees At December 31, 2023, we employed 741 persons, of which 485, or 65 percent, were truck drivers. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory, and none of our employees are subject to union contracts or part of a collective bargaining unit. Independent ContractorsIn addition to company drivers, we enter into contracts with independent contractors, who provide a tractor and a driver and are responsible for all operating expenses in exchange for an agreed upon fee structure. At December 31, 2023, we had 100 independent contractor operated tractors in our transportation and logistics and repurposing segments, which comprised approximately 17 percent of our professional truck driving fleet. 12Table of ContentsHealth and SafetySafety is one of our guiding principles as we are committed to providing our employees a safe working environment. We have implemented safety programs and management practices to promote a culture of safety. We are continuously working toward maintaining a strong safety culture to emphasize the importance of our employees role in identifying, mitigating and communicating safety risks. In light of the current COVID 19 pandemic, we have updated and implemented our pandemic plan to ensure the continuation of safe and reliable service to customers and to maintain the safety of our employees, as well as to incorporate any new governmental guidance and rules and regulations regarding workplace safety. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been deemed an essential entity by virtue of the transportation services we provide. Diversity and InclusionWe are committed to providing a professional work environment where all employees are treated with respect and dignity and provided with equal opportunities. We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, gender (including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual with a disability or other applicable legally protected characteristics. We also support the hiring of veterans and are honored to provide opportunities to men and women who have served their respective countries.We also partner with the Women in Trucking Association to support our efforts to advance the careers of women and gender diversity. It is our goal to empower the professional development of all employees and to operate from a mindset of sharing, caring, inclusion and equity.We support basic human rights throughout our business enterprise and prohibit the use of child, compulsory or forced labor. Our employees are strictly prohibited from using our equipment to transport, or our facilities to shelter, unauthorized persons, or to take any other act in support of human trafficking or human rights abuses. Employees are required to immediately report any human trafficking concerns to the appropriate law enforcement agency.We work with Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT) to train all over the road drivers on how to spot and report signs of human trafficking. Our drivers receive training from TAT and become registered as TAT trained and certified.BenefitsOur compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract, retain and motivate our employees and to reward them for their services and success. In addition to providing competitive salaries and other compensation opportunities, we offer comprehensive and competitive benefits to our eligible employees including, depending on location, life and health (medical, dental and vision) insurance, prescription drug benefits, flexible spending accounts, parental leave, disability coverage, mental and behavioral health resources, paid time off and retirement savings plan. Available InformationWe electronically file certain documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We file Annual Reports on Form 10 K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q; and Current Reports on Form 8 K (as appropriate); along with any related amendments and supplements thereto. 13Table of ContentsWe also make available free of charge, through the Investor Relations link on our website, www.adamsresources.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, simultaneously with or as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such materials to, the SEC. The information on our website, or information about us on any other website, is not incorporated by reference into this report. 
</SECTION>
