<SECTION>
ITEM 1 | BusinessFINRA Standard of Care Development In 2020, FINRA Rule 2111 was amended to provide that FINRAs suitability requirements do not apply to recommendations that are subject to Regulation BI. This amendment was intended to mitigate any potential confusion regarding which standard of conduct applies to retail consumers. FINRAs suitability rules still apply to recommendations that are not covered by Regulation BI, such as recommendations to institutional customers.New York Standard of Care Developments In July 2018, NYDFS adopted a best interest standard of care regulation applicable to annuity and life insurance transactions through issuance of the First Amendment to Insurance Regulation 187 Suitability and Best Interests in Life Insurance and Annuity Transactions (Regulation 187). As amended, Regulation 187 requires life and annuity producers to act in their clients best interest when making point of sale and in force recommendations, and to deliver to the client the written basis for the recommendation, as well as the facts and analysis to support the recommendation. The amended regulation also imposes additional duties on life insurance companies in relation to these transactions, such as requiring insurers to establish and maintain procedures designed to prevent financial exploitation and abuse. The amended Regulation 187 was previously challenged in court, but was upheld by the State of New York Court of Appeals, which is New Yorks highest state court, in October 2022. State Standard of Care Developments (Other than New York) In February 2020, the NAIC adopted revisions to its Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation (#275) (NAIC Suitability Model) implementing a best interest standard of care applicable to sales and recommendations of annuities. The amended NAIC Suitability Model conforms in large part to Regulation BI, providing that all recommendations by agents and insurers must be in the best interest of the consumer under known circumstances at the time an annuity recommendation is made, without placing agents or insurers financial interests ahead of the consumers interest in making a recommendation. A majority of states have adopted amendments to their suitability rules based on the NAIC Suitability Model revisions, and we expect that a substantial majority of states will do so or consider adopting their own standards of conduct which could be broader than the NAIC Suitability Model. We continue to closely follow these legislative and regulatory activities as changes in standard of care requirements and have evaluated the impact of these requirements on us and our customers, distribution partners and financial advisers. We have made significant investments to implement and enhance tools, processes and procedures, where needed, to comply with the final rules and interpretations. These efforts and enhancements have resulted in increased compliance costs and may impact sales results and increase regulatory and litigation risk.FEDERAL RETIREMENT LEGISLATIONIn December 2022, comprehensive retirement legislation entitled "SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022" (SECURE 2.0) was signed into law. SECURE 2.0 included many provisions affecting qualified contracts, many of which became effective in 2023, and additional ones that become effective in 2024 or subsequent years. Some of the SECURE 2.0 provisions that became effective in 2023 include, among others: an increase in the age at which required minimum distributions generally must commence to age 73 from the previous age of 72; elimination of the first day of the month requirement for governmental Section 457(b) plans; and optional treatment of employer contributions as Roth sources. We are implementing new processes and procedures, where needed, designed to comply with the new requirements. Available Information about AIGOur corporate website is www.aig.com. We make available free of charge, through the Investors section of our corporate website, the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC (including Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, any amendments to each of those reports and filings, and other disclosure), corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any amendments of or waivers from the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases. Additionally, all of our reports filed with the SEC are available on the SECs website at sec.gov. Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual reference.14AIG | 2023 Form 10 KTABLE OF CONTENTS
</SECTION>
